# solarlex
Repository for the code to calculate Lexington's solar potential

The first step to building the website was to create a file containing all the addresses in Lexington. I did this by using the http client python library and the beautiful soup library to fetch and parse the contents of this website:https://gis.vgsi.com/lexingtonma/Streets.aspx?Letter=1. This website contains almost all of the addresses in Lexington, although there are a few quirks in it that will have to be solved later. I then took all the addresses I had fetched and wrote them into a new file called addresses.txt. The code for this part of the process is in urlfetcher.py. The next step was to clean up the file by making sure to get rid of duplicates and sort the file. After that, I had to use Google's geocoding API in order to find the latitude and longitude coordinates for each address. Then using Google's solar API, I utilized the coordinates found from before to search through Google's solar data and then loaded the results into a JSON string. From there I could find the data for solar potential of each address and extract it. I finished by writing the addresses with their new data into a file called solardata.txt. After editing the file a little bit to account for duplicates and other formatting problems that came from the website the addresses were on, the final file I was using was solardata.txt.full. The final step of this process was creating the website. Using html code, I created three different pages. One page only contains the form to enter an address, called startpage.html. errorpage.html contains the same content as the start page but an error message is added at the bottom, telling the user the address they typed in was not found. Finally, mywebpage.html has the results found from whatever address the user entered. It has a few placeholders that are replaced with the actual data of whatever address was inputted, as well as a graph that was written using java script. The code to run the server is found in http-server.py. When it is run, whenever it receives an address, it will check if it is found within solardata.txt.full. If not, it will send back the error page. If it is found, then the code will go through the data for that address and assign them to a variable called vals. I can then replace the placeholders in the html page with the actual values from my data, and the webpage will now display it.
